[]



2014-03-19: The selection monad transformer (G. Allais)
    Guillaume presented parts of Hedges' paper Monad transformers for backtracking search (accepted to MSFP 2014). The paper extends Escardo and Oliva's work on the selection and continuation monads to the corresponding monad transformers, with applications to backtracking search and game theory. 

2014-03-05, 3pm: Lagrange Inversion (S. Hannah)
    Stuart spoke about Lagrange inversion, a species-theoretic attempt to discuss the existence of solutions to equations defining species. 

2014-02-28, 2pm: Species (N. Ghani)
    Neil spoke about how adding structured quotients to containers gives rise to a larger class of data types. 

2014-02-19: Synthetic Differential Geometry (T. Revell)
    Tim gave a brief introduction to Synthetic Differential Geometry. This is an attempt to treat smooth spaces categorically so we can extend the categorical methods used in the discrete world of computer science to the continuous work of physics. 

2014-02-12: Worlds (C. McBride)
    Conor talked about worlds (aka phases, aka times, ...): why one might bother, and how we might go about equipping type theory with a generic notion of permitted information flow. 

2014-02-05: Operads (M. Gould)
    Miles Gould has kindly agreed to come through and tell us about Operads, thus revisiting the topic of his PhD and the city in which he did it. 

2014-01-22: Overview of (extensions of) inductive-recursive definitions (L. Malatesta)
2014-01-08: On the recently found inconsistency of the univalence axiom in current Agda and Coq (C. McBride)
2013-12-18: Quantum Mechanics (R. Duncan)
2013-11-20: Classical Type Theories (R. Adams)
    In 1987, Felleisen showed how to add control operators (for things like exceptions and unconditional jumps) to the untyped lambda-calculus. In 1990, Griffin idly wondered what would happen if one did the same in a typed lambda calculus. The answer came out: the inhabited types become the theorems of classical logic.
    I will present the lambda mu-calculus, one of the cleanest attempts to add control operators to a type theory. We'll cover the good news: the inhabited types are the tautologies of minimal classical logic, and Godel's Double Negation translation from classical to intuitionistic logic turns into the CPS translation.
    And the bad news: control operators don't play well with other types. Add natural numbers (or some other inductive type), and you get inconsistency. Add Sigma-types, and you get degeneracy (any two objects of the same type are definitionally equal). It gets worse: add plus-types, and you break Subject Reduction. 
2013-11-13: Continuation Passing Style (G. Allais)
    I chose to go through (parts of) Hatcliff and Danvy's paper "A Generic Account of Continuation-Passing Styles" (POPL 94) which gives a nice factorization of various CPS transforms in terms of:

        embeddings from STLC to Moggi's computational meta-language (either call-by-value, call-by-name, or whatever you can come up with)
        followed by a generic CPS transform transporting terms from ML back to STLC

    Here is an Agda file containing what we had the time to see. 
